Instructions for migrating Kaptain to 2.0.0 (#4352)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kaptain/1.3.0/uninstall/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Uninstall
title: Uninstall Kaptain
menuWeight: 7
excerpt: Uninstall Kaptain from your cluster
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

> ### Uninstall Kaptain 1.3.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Uninstall Kaptain
```
not sure we need to call out the version here.

> Uninstalling Kaptain requires the execution of a few manual steps in addition to the regular "kudo uninstall" command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Uninstalling Kaptain requires the execution of a few manual steps in addition to the regular "KUDO uninstall" command.
```

> Uninstalling Kaptain requires the execution of a few manual steps in addition to the regular "KUDO uninstall" command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Uninstalling Kaptain requires the execution of some manual steps in addition to the regular "KUDO uninstall" command.
```

1.  Delete all profiles configured with Kaptain. Profiles have dependencies (such as finalizers) associated with Kaptain, and removing Kaptain before removing your profiles will put your cluster in a broken state.

    The following command deletes all notebooks, pipelines and deployed models. Notebook volumes created when deploying notebooks are cleaned up and deleted. Ensure you have backed up anything that is not in managed storage (even if model artifacts are stored in your object store, and your notebook code is in version control).

    ```bash
    kubectl get profile --output name | while read name; do
      kubectl delete $name
    done
    ```

> **DO NOT** proceed until all profiles are removed. If a profile fails to remove, see below for instructions to forcibly delete a profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**DO NOT** proceed until all profiles are removed. If a profile cannot be removed, review the troubleshooting section for instructions to [forcibly delete a profile][#### Removing a profile gets stuck].
```

1.  Uninstall Kaptain using KUDO. This command deletes the Kaptain Percona DB store, all deployments, statefulsets, jobs, and volumes associated with the kubeflow namespace.

    ```
    kubectl kudo uninstall --instance "kaptain" --namespace kubeflow --wait --wait-time=600
    ```

1.  Ensure that the following namespaces are removed:

    ```bash
    for ns in kubeflow kaptain-ingres kserve; do
      kubectl delete namespace $ns
    done
    ```

1.  Clean up several additional configuration resources left behind by KUDO-managed Kaptain, so you can install Helm-managed Kaptain correctly. This command selects various resource types with the label `kudo.dev/instance` of either `"kaptain"` or beginning with `"kaptain-"`.

    ```bash
    for type in clusterrole customresourcedefinition clusterrolebinding clusterrole mutatingwebhookconfiguration ValidatingWebhookConfiguration; do
      INSTANCES=$(kubectl get $type  --output json | jq '.items[].metadata.labels["kudo.dev/instance"] | select(. != null)'  -r | egrep '^kaptain(-|$)' | tr "\n" ",")
      kubectl delete $type --selector "kudo.dev/instance in ($INSTANCES)"

>     done

Author: Yeah, we should remove them. For some reason helm install doesn't complain about those being there still, though?

Great point on advertising need for jq.

    Kaptain is now fully uninstalled.

1.  Remove Kudo:

    ```bash
    kubectl kudo init --upgrade --dry-run --output yaml | kubectl delete -f -
    ```

### Troubleshooting and overcoming failures

Sometimes, for various reasons, uninstall steps may fail or hang because a cleanup task gets stuck. You may need to take steps for force Kubernetes to uninstall resources. Some cleanup may not be fully run.

#### Removing a profile gets stuck

If a profile fails to remove, you can skip the finalizer and manually clean up the namespace and related persistent volumes.

```
kubectl patch profile <profile-name> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":null}}' --type=merge
```

Then, try to delete it again:

```
kubectl delete profile <profile-name>
```

Next, find and make record of all persistent volumes ids associated with this profile. You will want to delete these volumes later.

```
kubectl get persistentvolume
```

Now, delete the namespace associated with the profile.

```
kubectl delete namespace <profile-name>
```

Finally, delete any persistent volumes that were associated with this profile

```
kubectl delete persistentvolume <persistent-volume-id>
```

#### Kudo Kaptain uninstall fails

> If Kudo Kaptain uninstall hangs and fails to properly uninstall, you can force the removal of the kaptain instance, and then manually clean up volumes and namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Kudo Kaptain uninstall hangs and fails to properly uninstall, you can force the removal of the Kaptain instance, and then manually clean up volumes and namespaces.
```

> 1.  Find the KUDE instance which is stuck:

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Find the KUDO instance which is stuck:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl get instances -n kubeflow
    ```

1.  Patch it, and remove it:

    ```bash
    kubectl patch instances -n kubeflow <instance-name> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":null}}' --type=merge
    kubectl delete instance <instance-name>
    ```

1.  Repeat the above until `kubectl get instances -n kubeflow` returns an empty list.

> 1.  Find and make record all persistent volumes IDs associated with Kubeflow. Look at the CLAIM column and look for values `kubeflow/datadir-kaptain-mysql-store-pxc-0`. Delete these volumes later.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Find and make record of all persistent volumes IDs associated with Kubeflow. Look at the CLAIM column and look for values `kubeflow/datadir-kaptain-mysql-store-pxc-0`. Delete these volumes later.
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Uninstall
title: Uninstall Kaptain
menuWeight: 7
excerpt: Uninstall Kaptain from your cluster
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

<p class="message--warning"><strong>WARNING: </strong>When uninstalling Kaptain, all data, the current state, and configuration of your application will be lost.</p>

## Uninstall Kaptain

Uninstalling Kaptain requires the execution of some manual steps in addition to the regular "KUDO uninstall" command.

1.  Delete all profiles configured with Kaptain. Profiles have dependencies (such as finalizers) associated with Kaptain, and removing Kaptain before removing your profiles will put your cluster in a broken state.

>     The following command deletes all notebooks, pipelines and deployed models. Notebook volumes created when deploying notebooks are cleaned up and deleted. **Ensure you have backed up** anything that is not in managed storage (even if model artifacts are stored in your object store, and your notebook code is in version control).

Reviewer 2: @cneth there is a way to back up and restore data. However, product and the team have decided not to document this as there is no way to guarantee it will work (at least for this release). Should we explicitly call this out? WDYT?

>     The following command deletes all notebooks, pipelines and deployed models. Notebook volumes created when deploying notebooks are cleaned up and deleted. **Ensure you have backed up** anything that is not in managed storage (even if model artifacts are stored in your object store, and your notebook code is in version control).

Reviewer 2: @alembiewski and @chessahoekstra

>     The following command deletes all notebooks, pipelines and deployed models. Notebook volumes created when deploying notebooks are cleaned up and deleted. **Ensure you have backed up** anything that is not in managed storage (even if model artifacts are stored in your object store, and your notebook code is in version control).

Reviewer 3: Wait, please help me understand this @chessahoekstra @timcharper @alembiewski 

We don't know how to back up this data?  Or we don't think a backup will actually work?
Why do we bother telling the user to do it if it doesn't work?  And why can't we give them a hint how to do it.

This kind of documentation just creates support problems, and customer satisfaction issues. Customers will read this warning and want to do the thing it instructs them to do - but there's no instructions on how to do it.  Not even a clue...  What am I missing?

If the user can't actually successfully back up this data, we should be honest and tell them that, not try to delude them into thinking it's possible and just frustrating them.

    ```bash
    kubectl get profile --output name | while read name; do
      kubectl delete $name
    done
    ```

**DO NOT** proceed until all profiles are removed. If a profile cannot be removed, review the troubleshooting section for instructions to [forcibly delete a profile][#cannot-finalize-removing-a-profile].

1.  Uninstall Kaptain using KUDO. This command deletes the Kaptain Percona DB store, all deployments, statefulsets, jobs, and volumes associated with the kubeflow namespace.

    ```
    kubectl kudo uninstall --instance "kaptain" --namespace kubeflow --wait --wait-time=600
    ```

1.  Ensure that the following namespaces are removed:

    ```bash
    for ns in kubeflow kaptain-ingres kserve; do
      kubectl delete namespace $ns
    done
    ```

> 1.  Clean up several additional configuration resources left behind by KUDO-managed Kaptain, so you can install Helm-managed Kaptain correctly. This command selects various resource types with the label `kudo.dev/instance` of either `"kaptain"` or beginning with `"kaptain-"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1.  Clean up additional configuration resources left behind by KUDO-managed Kaptain, so you can install Helm-managed Kaptain correctly. This command selects various resource types with the label `kudo.dev/instance` of either `"kaptain"` or beginning with `"kaptain-"`.
```

    ```bash
    for type in clusterrole customresourcedefinition clusterrolebinding clusterrole mutatingwebhookconfiguration ValidatingWebhookConfiguration; do
      INSTANCES=$(kubectl get $type  --output json | jq '.items[].metadata.labels["kudo.dev/instance"] | select(. != null)'  -r | egrep '^kaptain(-|$)' | tr "\n" ",")
      kubectl delete $type --selector "kudo.dev/instance in ($INSTANCES)"
    done
    ```

    Kaptain is now fully uninstalled.

1.  Remove Kudo:

    ```bash
    kubectl kudo init --upgrade --dry-run --output yaml | kubectl delete -f -
    ```

## Troubleshooting and overcoming failures

> Sometimes, uninstall steps fail or hang because a cleanup task gets stuck. In that case, force Kubernetes to uninstall resources. Some cleanup tasks may not be fully run.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes, the uninstall steps will fail or hang because a cleanup task gets stuck. In that case, you will need to force Kubernetes to uninstall the resources.  In such cases, you may need to clean up things manually.  Follow the steps below as necessary.
```

### Cannot finalize removing a profile

1.  Skip the finalizer and manually clean up the namespace and related persistent volumes.

    ```bash
    kubectl patch profile <profile-name> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":null}}' --type=merge
    ```

1.  Try to delete the profile again:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete profile <profile-name>
    ```

> 1.  Find and make record of all persistent volumes IDs associated with this profile. Delete these volumes later.

Reviewer 3: Can we add the example text we have below? "Look at the CLAIM column and look for values such as ...."?

```suggestion
1.  Find, and make a record of all persistent volumes IDs associated with this profile. You will delete these volumes later.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl get persistentvolume
    ```

1.  Delete the namespace associated with the profile.

    ```bash
    kubectl delete namespace <profile-name>
    ```

1.  Delete any persistent volumes that were associated with this profile.

    ```bash
    kubectl delete persistentvolume <persistent-volume-id>
    ```

### KUDO Kaptain uninstall fails

If KUDO Kaptain uninstall hangs and fails to properly uninstall, force the removal of the Kaptain instance, and manually clean up volumes and namespaces.

1.  Find the KUDO instance which is stuck:

    ```bash
    kubectl get instances -n kubeflow
    ```

1.  Patch it, and remove it:

    ```bash
    kubectl patch instances -n kubeflow <instance-name> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":null}}' --type=merge
    kubectl delete instance <instance-name>
    ```

1.  Repeat the above until `kubectl get instances -n kubeflow` returns an empty list.

> 1.  Find and make record of all persistent volumes IDs associated with Kubeflow. Look at the CLAIM column and look for values `kubeflow/datadir-kaptain-mysql-store-pxc-0`. Delete these volumes later.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1.  Find, and make a record of all persistent volumes IDs associated with Kubeflow. Look at the CLAIM column and look for values such as `kubeflow/datadir-kaptain-mysql-store-pxc-0`. You will delete these volumes later.
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Uninstall
title: Uninstall Kaptain
menuWeight: 7
excerpt: Uninstall Kaptain from your cluster
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

## Prerequisites

> -   Ensure you have a backup of your Kaptain installation if you are migrating to Kaptain 2.x.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mention specific instances, parts of Kaptain that should be backed up? Or is this general statement enough?

    ```
    kubectl kudo uninstall --instance "kaptain" --namespace kubeflow --wait --wait-time=600
    ```

1.  Ensure that the `kubeflow` namespace is removed:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete namespace kubeflow
    ```

1.  Clean up additional configuration resources left behind by KUDO-managed Kaptain, so you can install Helm-managed Kaptain correctly. This command selects various resource types with the label `kudo.dev/instance` of either `"kaptain"` or beginning with `"kaptain-"`.

    ```bash
    for type in clusterrole customresourcedefinition clusterrolebinding clusterrole mutatingwebhookconfiguration ValidatingWebhookConfiguration operators; do
      INSTANCES=$(kubectl get $type  --output json | jq '.items[].metadata.labels["kudo.dev/instance"] | select(. != null)'  -r | egrep '^kaptain(-|$)' | tr "\n" ",")
      kubectl delete $type --selector "kudo.dev/instance in ($INSTANCES)"
    done
    ```

    Kaptain is now fully uninstalled.

1.  Remove Kudo:

    ```bash
    kubectl kudo init --upgrade --dry-run --output yaml | kubectl delete -f -
    ```

## Troubleshooting and overcoming failures

> Sometimes, the uninstall steps will fail or hang because a cleanup task gets stuck. In that case, you will need to force Kubernetes to uninstall the resources.  In such cases, you may need to clean up things manually.  Follow the steps below as necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes, the uninstall steps will fail or hang because a cleanup task gets stuck. In that case, you will need to force Kubernetes to uninstall the resources. In such cases, you may need to clean up things manually. Follow the steps below as necessary.
```
